Faq fix (#103)
vippsas/vipps-report-api: report-api-faq.md

the Report API needs is simply not available.
It is unlikely that we'll be able to prioritize this over other development efforts.

## What information can I get hold of?

Right now the only data that is available is the same data that is already
available in the settlement reports on
[portal.vipps.no](https://portal.vipps.no),
or on
[SFTP report (deprecated)](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/settlements/sftp-report-service).

The only difference is that the data can be fetched over a more modern REST API.
We aim to provide more information through this API in the future.

> **Important:** It is not yet possible to use the Report API to retrieve data
> for *Vippsnummer* sale units. The Report API can only be used to sale units
> that have API access (which *Vippsnummer* sale units do not have.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Important:** It is not yet possible to use the Report API to retrieve data
for *Vippsnummer* sales units. The Report API can only be used to fetch data for sales units
that have API access (which *Vippsnummer* sales units do not have.)
```

> that have API access (which *Vippsnummer* sales units do not have.)

Reviewer: Should we note something here about it not being the case when using accounting partners?

Author: Hmm, maybe, but it's mentioned several other places.

characters for the payment text.

### Where can I find the settlement ID?

The `payout` corresponds to the `SettlementID` from the
[XML](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/settlements/#xmlsettlements/xml)
files in the
[SFTP report (deprecated)](https://developer.vippsmobilepay.com/docs/settlements/sftp-report-service).

### How can I get the details for a payment I see in my bank?

**Please note:** The payout from Vipps MobilePay to the merchant is
the balance at the time of the payout. The sum in the payout, which is what
the merchant sees in the bank, does not contain specific payments -
it is simply the balance at the time the payout was made.

The payout details can be found with these endpoints, where `{topic}` is `funds`:

* [`GET:/report/v2/ledgers/{ledgerId}/{topic}/dates/{ledgerDate}`][fetch-report-by-date-endpoint]
* [`GET:/report/v2/ledgers/{ledgerId}/{topic}/feed`][fetch-report-by-feed-endpoint]

Match the settlement ID in the bank with `pspReference`.

The Report API is designed to provide updated data independently of the bank payments.
There are several reasons for this, including:

> 1. A merchant can have a negative balance and not get settlement payouts for a long time.
>    Periodic checks of settlements would thus not make sense until the merchant has a positive again.
> 1. Merchants have different risk profiles (or could have at least). If we deemed that we would hold
>    back some of the balance from payouts to an airline company.
>    Let's say they sell three tickets at 5000 NOK each. We then change their risk profile saying we
>    need to hold back 7500 NOK and then the settlement run. We will then pay out 7500 NOK
>    (if there are no fees). Now: What captures will then be part of that settlement?
> 1. We may, in rare cases, manually correct payouts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A merchant can have a negative balance and not get settlement payouts for a long time.
   Periodic checks of settlements would thus not make sense until the merchant has a positive again.
2. Merchants have different risk profiles (or could have at least). If we deemed that we would hold
   back some of the balance from payouts to an airline company.
   Let's say they sell three tickets at 5000 NOK each. We then change their risk profile saying we
   need to hold back 7500 NOK and then the settlement run. We will then pay out 7500 NOK
   (if there are no fees). Now: What captures will then be part of that settlement?
3. We may, in rare cases, manually correct payouts.
```
